ESQ: Add metadata fields documentation (#98991)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/esql/metadata-fields.asciidoc

[[esql-metadata-fields]]
== {esql} metadata fields

++++
<titleabbrev>Metadata fields</titleabbrev>
++++

> {esql} can also access <<mapping-fields, metadata fields>>. The currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{esql} can access <<mapping-fields, metadata fields>>. The currently
```

supported ones are:

>   * <<mapping-index-field, _index>>: the index to which the document belongs.
>   The field is of the type <<keyword, keyword>>.
> 
>   * <<mapping-id-field, _id>>: the source document's ID. The field is of the
>   type <<keyword, keyword>>.
> 
>   * _version: the source document's version. The field is of the type
>   <<number, long>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * <<mapping-index-field,`_index`>>: the index to which the document belongs.
  The field is of the type <<keyword, keyword>>.

  * <<mapping-id-field,`_id`>>: the source document's ID. The field is of the
  type <<keyword, keyword>>.

  * `_version`: the source document's version. The field is of the type
  <<number,long>>.
```

> To enable the access to these fields, the <<esql-from, from>> source command needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the access to these fields, the <<esql-from,`FROM`>> source command needs
```

to be provided with a dedicated directive:

[source,esql]
----
FROM index [METADATA _index, _id]
----

> Consequently, the metadata fields are only available if the source of the data
> is an index; i.e., the source command is `FROM`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metadata fields are only available if the source of the data is an index.
Consequently, `FROM` is the only source commands that supports the `METADATA`
directive.
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion.

Once enabled, the fields are then available to subsequent processing commands, just
like the other index fields:

[source.merge.styled,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/metadata-ignoreCsvTests.csv-spec[tag=multipleIndices]
----
[%header.monospaced.styled,format=dsv,separator=|]
|===
include::{esql-specs}/metadata-ignoreCsvTests.csv-spec[tag=multipleIndices-result]
|===

Also, similar to the index fields, once an aggregation is performed, a

> metadata field will no longer be "accessible" to subsequent commands, unless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metadata field will no longer be accessible to subsequent commands, unless
```
